iDynTree 0.11 (UNRELEASED)                                              {#v0_11}
========================

[TOC]

iDynTree 0.11 Release Notes
=========================

Summary
-------
* iDynTree now official supports the following compilers: Microsoft Visual Studio 2015/2017, GCC >= 5.3 and clang >= 3.8 .
* The C++14 standard language is now used in the project, including in the public headers.
* [libxml2](http://xmlsoft.org) is now a required dependency. Check the docs to see how to install it.
* A new URDF parser was implemented. A side effect of the new parser is that the serialization of the links and joints of models
  parsed from URDF may change. In your code, please use name string (in place of indices) to identify joints and links, or use the
  `iDynTree::ModelLoader` class to load a Model with the specified joint serialization.
* CMake 3.5 is now required to build iDynTree.

Important Changes
-----------------

### `core`
* Improve SpatialInertia documentation ( https://github.com/robotology/idyntree/pull/435 ).

### `sensors`
* The `iDynTree/Sensors/SixAxisFTSensor.h` header has been deprecated in favor of the `iDynTree/Sensors/SixAxisForceTorqueSensor.h`.

#### `model_io`
* Added dependency on [Gnome libxml2](http://xmlsoft.org), see next bullet point.
* Added library `idyntree-modelio-xml` to parse generic XML files. Support for XSD validation (when parsing from file). This library requires [Gnome libxml2](http://xmlsoft.org).
* Rewritten URDF parser to use the new `idyntree-modelio-xml` library.
* Dropped required dependency on TinyXML1. If TinyXML is found in the system, it is possible to compile the old URDF parser that has been renamed into `idyntree-modelio-urdf-legacy`.

#### `core`
* Added `toEigen` methods for `Span` and added typedef for `Eigen` maps of vectors.
* Added some typedefs to `VectorDynsize` and `VectorFixSize` classes to enable the use of `make_span` with these objects.
* Added copy operator in `VectorDynSize` and `VectorFixSize` for `Span<double>`.

#### `high-level`
* Added method to obtain relative Jacobians sparsity pattern
* Added method to obtain free floating Jacobians sparsity pattern

#### `inverse-kinematics`
* Constraints Jacobian now exploit sparsity pattern
